Jonathon Qualls
Eric Pinter
Andrew Eveld

2D Platformer Evaluation Document

The intent of our game is to collect all of the colorful flags while jet-packing
through moon platforms. We intended this to be a moderately challenging and
simple platformer.

The narrative of our game is that you are part of a cleanup crew. Your goal is
to pick up some flags that vandals have left scattered across the moon trail.
You need to pick up all of the flags before the big name tourists go moon
hiking.

To move the player, you can use the "A" key to move left and the "D" key to move
right. The player has a jetpack, which you can activate with the spacebar. The
jetpack accelerates you upward allowing you to jump really high and also slow
your descent. All of the platforms are one-way platforms. The player collects
flags by colliding with them. Each level progresses once all of the flags are
collected.

The player is a minimalistic cartoon astronaut. The astronaut has an idle
animation of swinging his arms. The platforms, flags, and info box are also a
simple cartoon style. The background is a two-layer parallax background with
stars scattered throughout. We used a font that was reminiscent of NASA's font,
which paired with our art style very well.

Joys:
We found really nice artwork, fonts and backgrounds to work with. It's relieving
to have a clear style early on. Thinking of a fun story as to why you are picking
up these flags.

Struggles:
The platforms' behavior was difficult to get exactly right. Figuring out which tile
from the tile set was the right one that needed to be used.
Animation seemed to be a lot of effort for how much it contributed to the end product.
Maybe for a game where there are more characters (and they are closer to the screen)
or even for 3D projects it is worth it. However for this project almost all of 
the personality comes from the sprite choice instead of the ways that they move.

Sources

Starry Background: https://opengameart.org/content/starfield-background
Second layer of background: https://opengameart.org/content/3-layer-parallax-star-and-nebula-field
Tile Set: https://opengameart.org/content/platformer-art-deluxe
Astronaut sprite: https://opengameart.org/content/astronaut-2
Font : https://www.dafont.com/nasalization.font
Sounds: https://opengameart.org/content/100-plus-game-sound-effects-wavoggm4a

Contributions:
Eric implemented the system to switch between scenes, the very short third level, the idle animation
for the player and the jetpack.
Jonathon implemented a lot of the scripts, designed level one, and kept checking
for bugs and details. Found the tile set that we used.
Andrew implemented the infinite scrolling and parallax background. He also
implemented the flag animations and the sound for collecting flags. He
wrote the text for signs and designed level two.
